Add code examples to classes and objects python (#304)
Umuzi-org/ACN-syllabus: content/specific-skill-success-criteria/classes-and-objects/_index.md

```
saitama_acc = BankAccount("sa1234", 10000)
```

A class can have multiple instances.
```
kuroko_acc = BankAccount("ka1234", 300)
tsukasa_acc = BankAccount("ta1234", 75010)
vash_acc = BankAccount("va1234", 813650)
```

## Getters and setters

### Getters
A getter is a method that gets the value of a property.
```
  def balance(self):
    return self.amount
```

```
saitama_acc.amount
```

```
saitama_acc.balance()
```

### Setters
A setter is a method that sets the value of a property.
```
  def deposit(self, amount):
    self.amount += amount

  def withdraw(self, amount):
    self.amount -= amount
```

```
saitama_acc.deposit(500)
saitama_acc.withdraw(320)
```

## Inheritance
It enables us to create a new class from an existing class. The new class is a specialized version of the existing class and it inherits all the non-private variables and methods of the existing class.

No additional instance variable(s), `__init__()` can be left out
```
class SavingsAccount(BankAccount):
  pass
```

> Additional instance variable(s), `super()` is used

Reviewer: Hi there, I think a bit of explanation about the 'super()' class would be valuable as well as its importance relative to class inheritance.

```
class SavingsAccount(BankAccount):
    def __init__(self, acc_no, amount, main_acc_instance):
        super().__init__(acc_no, amount)
        self.main_acc_instance = main_acc_instance
```

```
saitama_savings_acc = SavingsAccount('ssa1234', 0, saitama_acc)
```

```
saitama_acc.deposit(500)
saitama_acc.withdraw(320)
```

```
saitama_savings_acc.deposit(500)
saitama_savings_acc.withdraw(320)
```

## Overriding

> Defining in the child class a method with the same name of a method in the parent class. If a method is overridden the implementation of the parent class is not considered at all.

Reviewer: What do you think of something like this instead?  "If a child class defines a method with the same name as a method in the parent class, that method is overridden and the parent class' implementation is not taken into account."

- getters and setters
- inheritance and overriding and extending methods
- composition

# Python

## Constructors

> The `__init__()` method is called the constructor and is always called when an object is created, generally used for instantiating an object.

Reviewer 2: That phrasing sounds a bit odd, I would say:
The `__init__()` method is called the constructor and is always called when an object is created - also known as instantiating an object.

### Default Constructor

> A simple constructor which doesn’t accept any arguments. Its definition has only one argument which is a reference to the instance being constructed.

Reviewer 2: Sorry if this seems pedantic but I'd say:
The default constructor is a simple constructor which doesn’t accept any arguments. Its definition has only one argument which is a reference to the instance being constructed.

```
class BankAccount:
  def __init__(self):
    pass
```

### Parameterized Constructor

> A constructor with parameters. Takes its first argument as a reference to the instance being constructed known as self and the rest of the arguments are provided by the programmer.

Reviewer 2: I'd say:
As the name suggests, a parameterised constructor, is a constructor with additional parameters. Takes its first argument as a reference to the instance being constructed, known as 'self', and the rest of the arguments are provided by the programmer.

```
class BankAccount:
  def __init__(self, acc_no, amount):
    self.acc_no = acc_no
    self.amount = amount
```

## Instantiation
Instantiating a class is creating a copy of the class which inherits all class variables and methods. We simply call the class as if it were a function, passing the arguments that the `__init__()` method defines (except `self`).
```
saitama_acc = BankAccount("sa1234", 10000)
```

A class can have multiple instances.
```
kuroko_acc = BankAccount("ka1234", 300)
tsukasa_acc = BankAccount("ta1234", 75010)
vash_acc = BankAccount("va1234", 813650)
```

## Getters and setters

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it might be useful to say something about why getters and setters exist? 
Something like:

The main purpose that getters and setters serve in object orientated programs is for ensuring data encapsulation - or put another way, as a mechanism for hiding the implementation details of a class from the user. In Python, getters and setters are not the same as for other object orientated languages. Private variables in Python are not actually hidden fields. In Python getters and setters are typically used when:
- we want to add validation logic for getting and setting a value
- to avoid the direct access of a class field so that private variables cannot be accessed directly/modified by an outside user

### Getters
A getter is a method that gets the value of a property.
```
  def balance(self):
    return self.amount
```

```
saitama_acc.amount
```

```
saitama_acc.balance()
```

### Setters
A setter is a method that sets the value of a property.
```
  def deposit(self, amount):
    self.amount += amount

  def withdraw(self, amount):
    self.amount -= amount
```

```
saitama_acc.deposit(500)
saitama_acc.withdraw(320)
```

## Inheritance

> It enables us to create a new class from an existing class. The new class (child class) is a specialized version of the existing class (parent class) and it inherits all the non-private variables and methods of the existing class.

Reviewer 2: I'd say:

Inheritance enables us to create a new class from an existing class. The new class (child class) is a specialized version of the existing class (parent class) and it inherits all the non-private variables and methods of the existing class.

> No additional instance variable(s), `__init__()` can be left out

Reviewer 2: For clarity I'd say:

If no additional instance variable(s) are needed in the child class, `'__init__()'` can be left out.

```
class SavingsAccount(BankAccount):
  pass
```

> Additional instance variable(s), `super()` is used

Reviewer 2: I'd say:

If additional instance variable(s) are required in the child class, `super()` is used

- getters and setters
- inheritance and overriding and extending methods
- composition

# Python

## Constructors

> The `__init__()` method is called the constructor and is always called when an object is created, also known as instantiating an object.

Reviewer 3: This is mostly true... there is actually a __new__ function that's the real constructor. __init__is the initialiser.

In python we dont use the constructor very often. Only if you are doing something unusual.  So we should focus on __init__ and ignore __new__. But just be sure to use the corect terminology

### Default Constructor

> The default constructor is a simple constructor which doesn’t accept any arguments. Its definition has only one argument which is a reference to the instance being constructed.

Reviewer 3: How to we assess that the learner knows this?  I'm not actually sure. We dont want them to parrot facts at us.

```
class BankAccount:
  def __init__(self):
    pass
```

### Parameterized Constructor
As the name suggests, a parameterized constructor is a constructor with parameters. Takes its first argument as a reference to the instance being constructed, known as `self` and the rest of the arguments are provided by the programmer.
```
class BankAccount:
  def __init__(self, acc_no, amount):

>     self.acc_no = acc_no

Reviewer 3: it would be good to use full words for variable names. We generally tell the learners to do that.

    self.amount = amount
```

## Instantiation
Instantiating a class is creating a copy of the class which inherits all class variables and methods. We simply call the class as if it were a function, passing the arguments that the `__init__()` method defines (except `self`).
```
saitama_acc = BankAccount("sa1234", 10000)
```

A class can have multiple instances.
```
kuroko_acc = BankAccount("ka1234", 300)
tsukasa_acc = BankAccount("ta1234", 75010)
vash_acc = BankAccount("va1234", 813650)
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Folks also need to understand that once these have been instantiated then different instances would have different attribute values.

## Getters and setters
The main purpose that getters and setters serve in object-orientated programs is for ensuring data encapsulation - or put another way, as a mechanism for hiding the implementation details of a class from the user. In Python, getters and setters are not the same as for other object-orientated languages. Private variables in Python are not actually hidden fields. In Python getters and setters are typically used when:

- we want to add validation logic for getting and setting a value
- to avoid the direct access of a class field so that private variables cannot be accessed directly/modified by an outside user

### Getters

> A getter is a method that gets the value of a property.

Reviewer 3: Rather leave this out. This demonstrates some bad practice.

Generally in python we would use @property instead. But it's a bit unusual, it's not somthing junior coders would really use.

Java folks should know about getters and setters, python folks can skip it.

```
  def balance(self):
    return self.amount
```

```
saitama_acc.amount
```

```
saitama_acc.balance()
```

### Setters
A setter is a method that sets the value of a property.
```

>   def deposit(self, amount):

Reviewer 3: This isn't a setter at all. This is just a perfectly normal function.

Folks do need to know how instance methods work and how they can change values. But these are not setters, it's the wrong word.

    self.amount += amount

  def withdraw(self, amount):
    self.amount -= amount
```

```
saitama_acc.deposit(500)
saitama_acc.withdraw(320)
```

## Inheritance
Inheritance enables us to create a new class from an existing class. The new class (child class) is a specialized version of the existing class (parent class) and it inherits all the non-private variables and methods of the existing class.

If no additional instance variable(s) are required in the child class, `__init__()` can be left out.
```
class SavingsAccount(BankAccount):
  pass
```

> If additional instance variable(s) are required in the child class, `super()` is used.

Reviewer 3: This sentence is a bit misleading. 

super is used in any situation where we would want to make use of functionality defined inside the parent class, within a function with the same name. 

Eg if you want to make a new __init__ function without completely throwing away the parent class __init__ function. Or if you want to make a new withdraw function that makes use of the parent's withdraw function. 

super isn't only for initialisers.

```
class SavingsAccount(BankAccount):
    def __init__(self, acc_no, amount, main_acc_instance):
        super().__init__(acc_no, amount)
        self.main_acc_instance = main_acc_instance
```

```
saitama_savings_acc = SavingsAccount('ssa1234', 0, saitama_acc)
```

```
saitama_acc.deposit(500)
saitama_acc.withdraw(320)
```

```
saitama_savings_acc.deposit(500)
saitama_savings_acc.withdraw(320)
```

### super()

> In a child class, a parent class can be referenced by using the `super()` function. This super function returns a temporary object/instance of the superclass (parent class) that gives access to all its methods to its child class. There's no need to specify the parent class name to access its methods. This function can be used both in single and multiple inheritances.

Reviewer 3: Always remember that we are not training parrots, we are training coders. How might a coder demonstrate this understanding? Can you come up with examples?

## Overriding

> If a child class defines a method with the same name as a method in the parent class, the child class method will override the parent class method, thus the child class method be implemented.

Reviewer 3: unless we use super.

```
    def deposit(self, amount):
        self.main_acc_instance.amount -= amount

>         self.amount += amount

Reviewer 3: These code examples are unclear. What does this mean? Can you think of examples that are more realistic? Or examples with words that make sense? What is a BankAccount's main_acc_instance?  Or are we dealing with another class here? 

'Remember that we need to set a good example for the learners. We want them to write good code. Good code make's its intentions clear.

- getters and setters
- inheritance and overriding and extending methods
- composition

# Python

## Constructors

> The constructor is a method that is called when an object is created. This method is defined in the class and can be used to initialize basic variables. In Python the `__init__()` method is called in place of the constructor - to instantiate (initialise) the object.

Reviewer 3: Rather use the word initializer. Technically `__new__` is the constructor

## Constructors
The constructor is a method that is called when an object is created. This method is defined in the class and can be used to initialize basic variables. In Python the `__init__()` method is called in place of the constructor - to instantiate (initialise) the object.
```
class Rectangle:
  def __init__(self, length, width):
    ...
```
> Learner should know how to create an initialiser that takes in arguments and create instance variables.

## Instantiation
Learner should be able to instantiate the object.
```
rectangle = Rectangle(2,4)
```

> Learner should also know what happens when the are multiple instances of an object.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Learner should also understand how multiple instances of an object work.
```
I think the example code should be kept 
```py
small_rectangle1 = Rectangle(2, 4)
small_rectangle2 = Rectangle(2, 4)
medium_rectangle = Rectangle(4, 12)
```

## Inheritance

> Learner should know what is inheritance and what it means when a class inherits another class.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Learner should know what is inheritance and what it means when a class inherits another class. Both single and multiple inheritance should be understood, and the use of `super()` in both cases.
```

```
class Square(Rectangle):
  pass
```

> Learner should know how to use super.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

## Inheritance

> It enables us to create a new class from an existing class. The new class (child class) is a specialized version of the existing class (parent class) and it inherits all the non-private variables and methods of the existing class.

Reviewer: 'Child classes can be created from parent classes, inheriting all the non-private variables and methods of their parents. They are specialized versions of the existing parent class.' ??

Author: I think the one above gives more details

saitama_savings_acc.withdraw(320)
```

### super()

> In a child class, a parent class can be referred to with the use of the `super()` function. The super function returns a temporary object of the superclass (parent class) that allows access to all of its methods to its child class. There's no need to specify the parent class name to access its methods. This function can be used both in single and multiple inheritances.

Reviewer: What do you think of this:- ' In a child class, a parent class can be referenced by using the *super()* function. This function returns a temporary instance/object of the superclass (parent class) that gives access to all its methods to its child class. It is not necessary to specify the parent class name.'
